so you've signed up for the general
evaluator role at a toastmasters meeting
and you're wondering how to prepare
don't worry you've come to the right
place my name is wade patterson i'm
passionate about impactful communication
public speaking toastmasters therefore
if this video gives you some benefit
please subscribe to my channel i would
really appreciate it simply put the
general evaluator role is all about
evaluating all the roles that don't have
an evaluator sounds a little confusing
but speeches have a speech evaluator
table topics has a table topics
evaluator but who evaluates the table
topics evaluator who evaluates the
speech evaluators that is the general
evaluator it took me a little while to
wrap my head around that concept but it
makes a lot of sense because
toastmasters is all about speaking and
if you're giving an evaluation you want
to know how you did on that the only
role that's not really evaluated is the
general evaluator him or herself if you
are brand new to toastmasters the
general evaluator role maybe isn't the
one that you first want to sign up for
i don't want to discourage you from
signing up for it but why i say that is
that a general evaluator should have a
pretty good base knowledge of the other
roles in a meeting because he or she is
going to be talking about how those
individuals did you should be
comfortable enough with the structure of
a toastmasters meeting that you can
speak effectively to how people did in
their roles every club is a little bit
different in terms of the agenda set up
for ours our general evaluator goes at
the very end of the meeting and it's
about a three to five minute evaluation
that is short for some clubs some clubs
have a general evaluator speak for 10
plus minutes so find out how your club
agenda works so that you know how long
you will be speaking in this evaluation
role throughout the meeting you should
be prepared to take a lot of notes i
always suggest minimal notes for giving
speeches but general evaluators you need
to talk about how did the timer do how
did the grammarian do because they
weren't previously evaluated how did the
humorist or the joke master do how did
the speech evaluator do these are so
many things that you're not going to be
able to keep straight in your head maybe
you can if you're very very advanced
but for most of us myself included i
need to write notes we all need to write
notes so that we know at the end of the
meeting
how
everybody did because you might not
remember something that happened 40
minutes before especially when all of
the new speakers have come in having
those notes is going to be very helpful
when you stand up to give your formal
evaluation depending on the amount of
time that your club allocates to the
general evaluator role
i find that is my personal biggest
challenge is giving all of those tips
all of those evaluations
in a short three to five minute span
it's a huge challenge a suggestion is to
not get hung up too early i've seen this
with a lot of general evaluations that
they start with the president
introducing everybody and then they
start talking about the humorist or the
joke master
and they realize they've used up half
their time already and then everyone
else's evaluation is rushed instead keep
a good pace of a quick positive and
perhaps a gift for each speaker
but keeping in mind that you want to
give helpful advice but you also want to
keep your general evaluation moving so
that you can keep it within the allotted
time span because you have a lot of
notes it's going to be a little bit
difficult to deliver a general
evaluation without holding up your piece
of paper and reading everything verbatim
but like any speech that is going to
take away from your body language it's
going to take away from vocal variety
instead what i like to do we have a
lectern at our club and i turn that
sideways that allows me to open up to
the audience my body isn't blocked by
the lectern
and i can subtly look over at my notes
see the next person i'm going to be
talking about a couple key words or
phrases that jog my memory about what
they did well and then i can turn back
to the audience and deliver that
evaluation you should also keep your
evaluation in third person which is
sometimes tricky to do because in a
smaller club you look at somebody and
you say john you did really well when
you said this during your grammarian
role
instead of that the wording should be
john did a phenomenal job with the
grammarian role by using a word of the
day that was something that we don't
hear every day and it forced us to use
a different set of vocabulary something
that was a little bit different by
saying the person's name in third person
it benefits all of the audience because
you're not just giving tips to john
you're giving tips for everyone we all
learn from these evaluations therefore
third person is the key when you're
giving a general evaluation if you've
signed up for the general evaluator role
congratulations it's a huge step it is a
tougher role to take on in toastmasters
but it's one that is very rewarding and
it improves your listening skills as
well that's something that i found with
toastmasters over the years
while you become a better speaker you
also become a better listener and it's
thanks to taking on roles like the
general evaluator i hope this video
brought you a little bit of value if it
did please subscribe to my channel i
would really appreciate it otherwise
have a great day